So far, you've controlled the robot and
generated the filtered and unfiltered trajectories.
Also, you saw how EKF can estimate the pose of the robot,
but we are still unable to quantitatively
visualize how close the filter pass is from the unfiltered one.
To do this, you can use the rqt_plot which is
a great cross package to graph the values echoed by different topics.
Using rqt_plot, you can graph the filtered and unfiltered robot poses,
but rqt_plot can only generate graphs with respect to time.
So, it can be used to plot the Y position of our robot versus its X position.
In this lab, you will use the rqt multi-plot since you can
define both the Y and X-Axis when generating the graphs.
Rqt Multiplot is not installed by default on your system.
So, pause the video and go through the steps in the instruction notes to install it.
In rqt Multiplot, select the Configure plot settings.
Let's give a title for our plot as RobotYPosvsXPos.
Now, define the unfiltered and filtered curve.
Start with the unfiltered curve.
Select Add a Curve and then,
give it a title as UnfilteredYPosvsXPos.
In the X-Axis, select the /odom X topic.
Since we are plotting y versus x,
select the y odom topic in the Y-Axis.
Keep the color as red since we chose the red color for the unfiltered trajectory earlier.
Now, follow the same steps and define the filtered curve.
Again, select the new curve.
Change the title to FilteredYPosvsXPos.
Then, select the filtered x and y positions topics in the X and
Y-Axis respectively and change the color to green to match the filter trajectory.
The graphs are posed by default.
So, press Play and start driving your robot around.
Now, you can quantitatively visualize how close the filtered path is from
the unfiltered one and how your EKF is
filtering the uncertainties and estimating the pose of the robot.
Keep playing around with rqt plot and graph the orientation of the robot.
Then, save the plot as an image and share it with your classmates.